Plants vs. Zombies is a tower defense video game developed and originally published by PopCap Games for Microsoft Windows and Mac OS X. The game involves a homeowner using many varieties of plants to repel an army of zombies. The homeowner, along with a neighbor called Crazy Dave, must defend the homeowner's house during day or night, in the front yard and the backyard (which contains a swimming pool), and even on the roof. It was first released on May 5, 2009 and made available on Steam on the same day.[3][8] A version for the iOS was released in February 2010, and an HD version for the iPad[9]). An extended Xbox Live Arcade version introducing new gameplay modes and features was released on September 8, 2010.[6] PopCap has also announced a Nintendo DS version, to be released in January 2011, that will feature content unique to the platform.[10] Furthermore, both the original Windows and Mac version of the game have been re-released with additional content in a Game of the Year version. The game received a positive response from critics, and was nominated for multiple Interactive Achievement Awards, alongside receiving praise for its musical score.
Contents [hide]
1 Gameplay
1.1 Game modes
2 Development
2.1 Concept
2.2 Design
2.3 Soundtrack
3 Cultural references
4 Reception
4.1 Awards
4.2 Sales
5 References
6 External links
[edit]Gameplay

Plants vs. Zombies sees players placing different types of plants and toadstool, such as potato mine, peashooters, cattail, hypno-shroom, cabbage-pult, melon-pult, plantern and many others, each with their own unique offensive or defensive capabilities, across the front garden, back garden, and roof of a house in order to stop a horde of zombies from devouring the brains of the residents. The playing field is divided into a number of horizontal tracks, and in general, although there are exceptions, a zombie will only move towards the player's house along one track, and most plants can only attack or defend against zombies in the track they are planted in. In the game's initial levels, if the zombie reaches the player's house, a one-shot tool (a lawn mower or pool cleaner) can be used to completely wipe out zombies in that track, but the tool will not be restored until the next level. In later levels, players have to purchase upgrades so as to adapt their lawn-mower to new environments like pools or rooftops. Zombies, except in special cases, attempt to devour any plants in their way while heading towards the house.


Gameplay in progress.
The player starts with a limited number of seed packs and seed pack slots that they can use during most levels. New seed packs are gained by completing levels, while the number of slots can be increased through purchases with in-game money. At the start of a level, the player is shown the various types of zombies to expect and given the opportunity to select which seed packs to take into the level. In order to plant a seed, the player must have collected a specific amount of sunlight. Sunlight is generated by plants which provide sunlight at regular intervals, or is automatically generated regularly for the player during daytime levels. Seed packs also have a short time delay before the same seed can be planted again. Several plants are nocturnal, like mushrooms, having a lower sunlight cost and are ideal for nighttime levels, but will remain asleep during daytime levels unless awoken by a coffee bean. In the "backyard" levels that include a swimming pool, seeds must be planted atop lily pads on water spaces, while on the roof levels, all seeds must be planted in flower pots. The various plant abilities range from firing projectiles at zombies, turning zombies against each other, quickly exploding and wiping out an area of zombies, and slowing down zombies. Certain plants are highly effective against specific types of zombies, such as a "Magnet-shroom" that can remove metallic items from a zombie, such as helmets and ladders.
The zombies also come in a number of types that have different attributes, in particular, speed, damage tolerance, and abilities. As the player progresses in the game, the zombies will include those wearing makeshift armor, those that are able to jump or fly over plants, and even a dancing zombie that is able to summon other zombies from the ground.[11] In each level, zombies will approach the house randomly except at special points where the player will be inundated with a "huge wave" of zombies; a meter on screen shows an approximate timeline for the level so the player can prepare for these waves.
[edit]Game modes
The primary game mode is a single player Adventure mode pitting the player against wave after wave of zombies. Killing zombies and finishing the levels may earn the player money that can be used at a store run by the neighbor "Crazy Dave" to buy new seed packs and other bonuses. In some levels of the game, the player will be provided with random seed packets, with no sunlight requirement, at regular intervals, and the player must figure out how best to survive with the random seeds given.
The game also features extra modes that are unlockable as the player progresses through the game's main Adventure mode. These include a survival mode, a puzzle mode and a selection of minigames which include zombie-themed versions of other PopCap games like Bejeweled and Insaniquarium. The game also features a "Zen garden", where players can care for plants they acquire from fallen zombies during game play. Plants stored here produce money for the player as long as they are provided with items they ask for, such as water and plant food. The in-game store also carries items that help with the zen garden. In the iOS version of the game, the puzzle mode and Zen Garden were removed. The Xbox Live Arcade version of the game includes two multiplayer modes, both co-operative and competitive, additional mini-games and a virtual house where players can show off their achievements to friends.[12][13]
[edit]Development